README.md, before:

# `infra`

[![built with nix](https://builtwithnix.org/badge.svg)](https://builtwithnix.org)

Welcome to my Nix-ified infrastructure and personal monorepo.

## Usage

Common operations are defined in the root [`Makefile`](./Makefile).
To list Makefile targets run `make help`.

## Projects

### Top level structure

```text
.
├── home/       # Home-Manager configurations
├── homelab/    # Additional homelab content
├── hosts/      # NixOS configurations
├── lib/        # Re-usable flake utilities
├── packages/   # My nixpkgs overlay
├── flake.lock
├── flake.nix
├── LICENSE
├── Makefile    # Common operations defined here
├── README.md
└── shell.nix   # Shell environment for Makefile operations
```

### Packages

This flake contains an overlay with several packages that I rely on day to day:

- [`oscal-cli`](./packages/oscal-cli/)
- [`oscal-deep-diff`](./packages/oscal-deep-diff/)
- [`xspec`](./packages/xspec/)

These packages are **UNOFFICIAL**, experimental, potentially transient, and come with no guarantees or warranty.
If you would like to see these packages submitted [upstream](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs) or to the [NUR](https://nur.nix-community.org/), **please open an issue on this repository as a signal of interest**.

Commit message:

Modularized the lab configuration
* Made `homepage` module accept service configurations as an option
* Moved modules into folders with their own options
* Fleshed out the  main and `hades` README

README.md, after:

# `infra`

[![built with nix](https://builtwithnix.org/badge.svg)](https://builtwithnix.org)

Welcome to my Nix-ified infrastructure and personal monorepo.

## Projects

This repository contains my Nix-related experiments.
Beyond managing dotfiles, I have also experimented with [packaging some of my commonly used applications](#packages), [managing a homelab worth of containers with Arion](#homelab), and [packaging a few flake utilities](#flake-utilities).

```text
.
├── homeModules/ # Re-usable Home-Manager modules
├── homes/       # Home-Manager configurations
├── hostModules/ # Re-usable NixOS modules
├── hosts/       # NixOS configurations
├── lib/         # Re-usable flake utilities
├── packages/    # My packages + overlay
├── Makefile     # Common operations defined here
├── README.md    # You are here
└── shell.nix    # Shell environment for Makefile operations
```

### Packages

This flake contains an overlay with several packages that I rely on day to day:

- [`oscal-cli`](./packages/oscal-cli/)
- [`oscal-deep-diff`](./packages/oscal-deep-diff/)
- [`xspec`](./packages/xspec/)

These packages are **UNOFFICIAL**, experimental, potentially transient, and come with no guarantees or warranty.
If you would like to see these packages submitted [upstream](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs) or to the [NUR](https://nur.nix-community.org/), **please open an issue on this repository as a signal of interest**.

### Homelab

The NixOS configuration [`Hades`](./hosts/hades/) uses [Arion](https://github.com/hercules-ci/arion) to deploy a fully featured home server.

### Flake Utilities

I have created a few Flake helpers and placed them in [`lib/`](./lib):

- [`mkHomes`](./lib/mkHomes.nix): Home-Manager configuration helper that generates Home-Manager and NixOS module compatible outputs and imports `user@hostname`-specific Home-Manager modules by path.
- [`mkHosts`](./lib/mkHosts.nix): NixOS configuration helper that imports a corresponding Home-Manager configuration and imports `hostname`-specific NixOS modules by path.
- [`mkPackageSet`](./lib/mkPackageSet.nix): Package and overlay helper that generates an overlay and package set given a set of derivations.

Refer to the [`flake.nix`](./flake.nix) for usage examples.

## Usage

Common operations are defined in the root [`Makefile`](./Makefile).
To list Makefile targets run `make help`.
